CEXT-6094: Enable Commerce Developer AI Agent to support migration to App Management (#441)
adobe/aio-commerce-sdk: plugins/commerce-app-migration/skills/commerce-app-migrate/agents/analyzer.md

# Analyzer Agent — App Management Migration

You are the Analyzer agent for the App Management Migration skill.
Your job is to read the App Builder starter kit project in the current directory
and produce a `ProjectSnapshot` JSON object describing its structure.

**Output ONLY valid JSON — no explanation, no markdown fences, no extra text.**

---

## Files to Read

Read ALL of the following. Skip files that don't exist (do not error).

1. `app.config.yaml` — packages, extensions block, included action configs
2. `package.json` — dependencies and scripts

> 3. `.env` — preferred source for auth mode

Reviewer: Should we actually recommend an LLM to read sensitive files? In our case it's fine because the data is not used to train the models, but not sure if it's the best for someone who might not

Author: Instructions were update to not read the file directly but to extract only variable names https://github.com/adobe/aio-commerce-sdk/pull/441/changes/6cf14908c20915e95cfe15dacd6f296bb9cb0d5c

6. Every `actions.config.yaml` under `actions/` (list directory recursively, read each)
7. `install.yaml` AND `install.yml` — existing extension point declarations (either extension may exist)
8. `README.md` — supplementary context
9. `app.commerce.config.ts` — check for already-migrated state
10. `app.commerce.config.js` — check for already-migrated state
11. `mesh.json` — API Mesh configuration presence
12. Any `ext.config.yaml` referenced via `$include` in the `extensions:` block
13. `extension-manifest.json` — preferred metadata source (id, displayName, description)

---

## Detection Rules

### alreadyMigrated

Check if `app.commerce.config.ts` exists at the project root.

- If found: `alreadyMigrated: true` (TypeScript defineConfig format is always current).

If only `app.commerce.config.js` exists, inspect its content:

- If the file contains `export default defineConfig(` → `alreadyMigrated: true`
  (ESM defineConfig format, treated as already-migrated).
- If the file contains `module.exports` → `alreadyMigrated: false`
  (old CJS format from a prior SDK iteration; this project needs migration).

> - If the file content is empty or cannot be determined → `alreadyMigrated: false`.

Reviewer: Not sure if this would be criteria for migration? Shouldn't just be the presence of this file? Why would whether the user uses JS + ESM or JS + CJS require migration? 

Of course the best practice is use ESM and TS (what is actually documented), that I agree with, but I would not consider it a pending migration, as in the end it's mostly about user-choice.

Author: Yes, checking the presence of the file should be enough. Skill updated

  inspect all package names within those files.
- If `app.config.yaml` has an `application:` block, inspect `application.runtimeManifest.packages`.
- If `app.config.yaml` has BOTH an `application:` block AND an `extensions:` block, inspect
  packages from BOTH: read `application.runtimeManifest.packages` AND follow each `$include`
  path under `extensions:` to read all referenced ext.config.yaml files.

Signals:

- `"integration"` — ANY of these package names present: `product-commerce`,
  `customer-commerce`, `order-commerce`, `stock-commerce`, `product-backoffice`,
  `customer-backoffice`, `order-backoffice`, `stock-backoffice`, `starter-kit`
  OR any of these structural signals:
  - `starter-kit-registrations.json` exists at the project root
  - `EVENTS_SCHEMA.json` exists at the project root
  - `scripts/onboarding/index.js` exists
  - Action directories follow the `actions/<entity>/commerce/` + `actions/<entity>/external/`
    bidirectional pattern for at least 2 entities (e.g. `actions/product/commerce/`,
    `actions/product/external/`, `actions/order/commerce/`, `actions/order/external/`)

> - `"checkout"` — ANY of these package names present: `cart`, `payment`,

Reviewer: I think the more precise ways to detect CSK are:

- Presence of `events.config.yaml`, `payment-methods.yaml`, `shipping-carriers.yaml` or `tax-integrations.yaml`
- One or more of the following `scripts` in `package.json`: `configure-events`, `configure-commerce-events`, `create-payment-methods`, `create-tax-integrations`, `create-shipping-carriers`, `get-shipping-carriers`, `sync-oauth-credentials`

Author: Updated here https://github.com/adobe/aio-commerce-sdk/pull/441/changes/12420d9a17c52f448d86da8bd0520f7e2927888b

  `checkout`, `cart-commerce`, `payment-commerce`, `commerce-checkout-starter-kit`
  OR any of these structural signals:

>   - `@adobe/commerce-checkout-starter-kit` present in `package.json` dependencies

Reviewer: Not a dependency 🙈. Maybe the name? Although users might have changed it

```suggestion
  - `commerce-checkout-starter-kit` in `package.json`, in the `name` field.
```

Author: Updated

  - Any action in any collected config file has annotation `raw-http: true` AND an input
    named `COMMERCE_WEBHOOKS_PUBLIC_KEY`
  - Any webhook method path in any config file contains `out_of_process`
  - `scripts/create-shipping-carriers.js` OR `scripts/create-payment-methods.js` exists
- If both signal sets appear, use `"integration"`
- `"unknown"` — no signals from either set

### authMode

Check `.env` first, then `env.dist`, then `app.config.yaml` global inputs, then any `ext.config.yaml`

> files. Read the raw content looking for non-commented, non-empty lines.

Reviewer: Idem on reading `.env`. I would actually reverse this list. First `app.config.yaml`, then `env.dist` (second because it might not exist), then `.env` as a last resort and trying to not read the secrets (using `sed` or some command to actually only pull the keys).

Author: Updated here https://github.com/adobe/aio-commerce-sdk/pull/441/changes/6cf14908c20915e95cfe15dacd6f296bb9cb0d5c
